.\" Manpage for apps.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C), 2015 Anton Seliverstov (seliverstov.ad@ya.ru)
.\"
.\" You may distribute under the terms of the GNU General Public
.\" License as specified in the file COPYING that comes with the 
.\" man-db distribution.
.\"
.TH man 5 "13 Dec 2015" "1.0" "apps man pages"
.SH NAME
apps-rc \- Configuration file for apps.
.SH SYNOPSIS
apps looks for config file in
.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}
$HOME/.config/apps/apps-rc
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
File apps-rc has XML-like syntax. Apps was designed to be a light-weight application that builds 
and runns on most Unix/Linux distros, 
so it doesn't support all havy features of XML format and several 
limitations apply.
 Simply follow format of generated file:
 \- One tag per line;
 \- Nested folders are supported;
 \- The only important attribute is "name" the rest are optional;
 \- Use "\-\-" to comment a line;
 \- Don't use speciac characters in strings, like "\-\-", "/", ">" or "<".
.sp
It must have "<apps>" as a root element, that contains all 
global properties and applications menu itself. 
Properties are set in format:

.sh
.RS 4
    <prop name="PROPERTY_NAME" value="PROPERTY_VALUE"/>
.sp
The available properies are:
.sp
    SHOW_CMD (true/false) - display "cmd" attribute of application 
instead of "name", if "cmd" is set;
.sp
    SHOW_COMMENTS (true/false) - display comment for categories and application,
if it is set;
.sp
    KEYCODE_MENU_PREVIOUS - select previous menu item with a specified 
keyboard character sequence. Each character is a three digit number with leading zeros.
Characters are separated by space, when sequence includes more then one character.
For example "027 091 065" is an ANSI sequence generated by the OS for up arrow keystroke.
 (see examples section);
.sp
    KEYCODE_MENU_NEXT - select next menu item with a specified 
keyboard character sequence;
.sp
    KEYCODE_MENU_IN - enter category with a specified 
keyboard character sequence;
.sp
    KEYCODE_MENU_OUT - leave current category with a specified 
keyboard character sequence;
.sp
    KEYCODE_MENU_RUN - execute application if it has a valid "cmd" 
attribute with a specified keyboard character sequence;
.sp
    KEYCODE_MENU_EXIT - leave last element name in command line and exit with a specified 
keyboard character sequence;
.sp
    FOLDER_ICON_PRE - text icon that will be shown before category name;
.sp
    FOLDER_ICON_POST - text icon that will appear when category is not empty;
.sp
    APPLICATION_ICON_PRE - text icon that will be shown before application name;
.sp
    APPLICATION_ICON_POST - text icon that will appear when application has "cmd" attribute.
.sp
.sp
Empty Categories have format:
.sp
    <folder name="CATEGORY_NAME" comment="MESSAGE"/>
.sp
Categories with sub-categories and applications have format:
.sp
    <folder>
    ...
    </folder>
.sp
Apps menu has a single root category that has name "root" 
and located inside <apps> element and multiple sub-categories.
You can't use "root" as a sub-category name.
.sp
Applications have format:
.sp
    <app name="MENU_ITEM_NAME" cmd="SHELL_COMMAND" comment="MESSAGE"/>
.sp
Note, that comments for categories and applications will be displayed only when 
SHOW_COMMENTS parameter is set to "true".
.sp
.SH EXAMPLES
Here is a list of known ANSI escape sequences that apps recognizes:
.sp
"027 079 080"              F1
.sp
"027 079 081"              F2
.sp
"027 079 082"              F3
.sp
"027 079 083"              F4
.sp
"027 091 049 053 126"      F5
.sp
"027 091 049 055 126"      F6
.sp
"027 091 049 056 126"      F7
.sp
"027 091 049 057 126"      F8
.sp
"027 091 050 048 126"      F9
.sp
"027 091 050 049 126"      F10
.sp
"027 091 050 050 126"      F11
.sp
"027 091 050 051 126"      F12
.sp
"027 091 050 052 126"      F12+
.sp
"027 091 049 126"          Home
.sp
"027 079 072"              Home+
.sp
"027 091 052 126"          End
.sp
"027 079 070"              End+
.sp
"027 091 053 126"          Page-Up
.sp
"027 091 054 126"          Page-Down
.sp
"027 091 050 126"          Insert
.sp
"027 091 065"              Up
.sp
"027 091 066"              Down
.sp
"027 091 068"              Right
.sp
"027 091 067"              Left
.sp
And here is an example of apps-rc content:
 <apps >
   <prop name="SHOW_CMD" value="false"/>
   <prop name="SHOW_COMMENTS" value="true"/>
   <prop name="KEYCODE_MENU_PREVIOUS" value="027 091 065"/>
   <prop name="KEYCODE_MENU_NEXT" value="027 091 066"/>
   <prop name="KEYCODE_MENU_IN" value="027 091 067"/>
   <prop name="KEYCODE_MENU_OUT" value="027 091 068"/>
   <prop name="KEYCODE_MENU_RUN" value="010"/>
   <prop name="KEYCODE_MENU_EXIT" value="032"/>
   <prop name="FOLDER_ICON_PRE" value="|_| "/>
   <prop name="FOLDER_ICON_POST" value=" ~~"/>
   <prop name="APPLICATION_ICON_PRE" value="| "/>
   <prop name="APPLICATION_ICON_POST" value=" ~~"/>
   <folder name="root">
     <folder name="My Applications">
       <folder name="Linux">
         <app name="ping -c4" comment="ping 4 times"/>
       </folder>
       <app name="ifconfig" cmd="/sbin/ifconfig"/>
   </folder>
 </apps >

.SH SEE ALSO
apps(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Anton Seliverstov (seliverstov.ad@ya.ru)