.\" Manpage for apps.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C), 2016 Anton Seliverstov (seliverstov.ad@ya.ru)
.\"
.\" You may distribute under the terms of the GNU General Public
.\" License as specified in the file COPYING that comes with the 
.\" man-db distribution.
.\"
.TH man 1 "13 Dec 2016" "1.0" "apps man pages"
.SH NAME
apps \- User friendly console applications menu.
.SH SYNOPSIS
apps
.SH DESCRIPTION
Apps behaves similar to "Applications Menu" button, that you usually have
in most modern distros with graphical user interfase, but it was designed for console.
So it keeps a collection of you console applications under categories, 
helping you to find complicated names of console utilities easily.
When application is found, you may leave it's name in console and exit, 
or execute it.
Please keep in mind, application will be executed within subshell, 
running as a child procees of apps.

Apps menu is intuitive. 
Navigate using kyboard arrow buttons (by default). 
Apps reads each keystroke as an ANSI siquence of characters, and since they 
theoretically could be non-ANSI in some distros, you can configure them as 
you like and bind any key to any menu action. 

Apps menu is highly configurable. 
When you start apps first time, it will generate a ~/.apps/apps.rc file 
that you can fill with your own categories and applications in 
an XML-like format.
Apps was designed to be a light-weight application that builds 
and runns on most Unix/Linux distros, 
so it doesn't support all havy features of XML format and several 
limitations apply.
 Simply follow format of generated file:
 \- One tag per line;
 \- Nested folders are supported;
 \- The only important attribute is "name" the rest are optional;
 \- Use "\-\-" to comment a line;
 \- Don't use speciac characters in strings, like "\-\-", "/", ">" or "<".

.SH OPTIONS
The apps does not take any options.
.SH SEE ALSO
apps-rc(5), apropos(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Anton Seliverstov (seliverstov.ad@ya.ru)